Did you ever wonder why vue resource was called vue resource and not vue http or something like that?
Because it has a nice extra feature which allows us to set up our own resources which are kind of nice
mappings of common tasks to http requests. For example, you want to store something in the database,
typically it would be, it would make sense if you would call save, a save method on your data and then
that would automatically execute a post request or send a post request to the right
URL with the data attached to it,
now vue resource or the resources you can set up with vue resource allow you to do that.
I'll go to the app.vue file and I want to show you this concept of vue resources.
The first thing you've got to do is you have to create such resources if you want to use them, for that I'll
store a new or have a new key here in my data
in my vue instance and I'll name it resource and this is just an empty object. Then I will set up the created
lifecycle hook because that is a good place to initialize the resources
I want to use in this app.vue
file here and then I simply can set it up by using my resource property I just created and then
accessing this.$resource, again dollar sign indicates it's not coming from us, it's coming
from the root or from vuejs
in general or in this case, from vue resource in general and vue resource actually is a method.
Now to this method,
we have to pass certain data fields.
The first field is the resource,
now that could be data.json,
this will again use our root
URL we set up here
and well we already have data.json there,
so to make this work, I will remove it here so that we just have it like this
and then in my app.vue file, use data.json and also using all my other requests as the first
argument
now, so that we append data.json at the end of this standard URL. You will see in the next videos
why I do that,
for now I will leave it static like this,
so for that I wouldn't have needed to do that but you will see why I did it in the next videos again.
So here this is the path, URL we want to visit with this resource,
I'm going to leave this like it is right for now,
we will change this in the next lectures,
then it will make sense that I extracted this data.json file from the root URL.
And with that, we already set up some resources because vue resource ships with some default actions
we can perform on our resources, on our data.
You can check out these default actions in the vue resource documentation
of course, if you go to creating resources you will see some default actions here.
So let's use that resource we just created,
how does this work?
I will comment out my submit code in here,
so this old code and instead, I now want to submit this differently. I want to use this resource using
my own resource property here which I configure down there and then, save because save is one of the
default actions provided by vue resource
as you can see here. This will as you can also see send a post request to the URL which is saved
for this resource, this is this URL appended to the root URL of course
and then we can simply pass the data as an argument here. Specifically, we can pass two things, the first
one
are any parameters we want to pass to that URL, we won't do that for now, I will come back to this later,
the second argument is the data I actually want to pass, the data I do want to pass is this user as before
with my other post request. Well with this, let me save this and send this request again
and let's see if this works
and by going to the firebase console, looks good.
Now let me try this again,
looks good, it is overridden because yes we send a post request but we still have our intercepter in
place
but now we're using this resource here. As you can see, the syntax is now
shorter, though of course also because I removed the then functions which I could still use.
But with that, we can now set up some flexible pieces of functions we can then reuse in our application
and I will come back to this and now customize this a bit more in the next video.